[Music]
everything in the store and I mean
everything is designed to make you part
with your savings marketers use your
sense of smell sight and sound to get
you to spend more money but that's not
all
brace yourself stores aren't above using
dirty psychological tricks to manipulate
you let's have a look at the most
popular ones I have yet to see a store
which doesn't use prices ending in 99 or
any kind of dot nine these prices have
the nickname charm prices and their only
real purpose is to make you think that
stuff is cheaper than it really is
in this case a phenomena called the left
digit effect comes into action and you
perceive the price of $6.99
now how do you like this stores play
music that is slower than your heartbeat
to make you spend more time wondering
about it may not make sense but this
trick works statistically you don't only
spend more time in such a store but also
leave 29% more money there who doesn't
love a good sale well marketing experts
know about this human quirk and place
huge sale signs in their windows this
draws many more shoppers into their
store unfortunately nobody can promise
that you will indeed find any discounts
inside one more hook that stores used to
make you come back again and again is
loyalty cards with the help of these
cards they can track your purchase
history figure out your buying habits
and use this info to persuade you to buy
more what's the first thing you see when
you enter a store right you are discount
of goods for example cheap socks or
bargain bags of potato chips why would a
store sell something at half its price
is the expiration date approaching nope
everything is good with the quality of
these goods they are just open the
wallet items that brutally break your
psychological anti money wasting barrier
beware of bogus coupons at first glance
they seem to help you save money but in
reality they
are nothing but advertisements they do
give you some discount but usually for
the most expensive option in the store
don't re to use your coupon to buy
something for $4 55 you might find a
cheaper alternative for $4 30 that will
be just as good stores often try to lure
you with candy and succeed in this the
Journal of consumer research published a
study proving that people bought more
luxury products like expensive watches
designer clothing and gadgets after they
were treated to some chocolates this is
also the reason why some grocery stores
invite you to sample their products
don't let yourself be tricked by words
about a limited time offer the catch is
that if you believe the offer won't last
long you'll most likely act impulsively
as a result you end up with stuff you
don't need or with more things than you
were planning to purchase have you
noticed that you've been paying the same
price for less product recently some
manufacturers steadily reduce the volume
of their packaging while the cost
remains the same shampoo manufacturers
tend to make a big dent pool at the
bottom of the bottle so that it looks
the same but contains less product oh
you're going to love this one it turns
out that customers prefer discounts that
are easy to calculate therefore they
will be more likely to pick used to be
$25 now $20 over used to be $25 now 17
it seems obvious that the latter option
saves more money but shoppers still up
for the former I have just one question
why marketing experts use bright colors
to enhance your mood thus encouraging
you to buy more that's why most stores
keep their brightest products up front
if you don't want to fall for this trick
start your shopping in the middle of the
store retail masterminds create mazes in
their stores and send you on a wild
goose chase such a confusing store
design isn't an accident or lack of
thinking when you look for something you
need and can locate it you start to lose
focus as a result you are likely to make
more impulse purchases on top of that
most stores change their layouts at
least once a month by rearranging their
products retailers make you wander
around the store and confusion it
takes time you grow hungry and tired and
voila you exit the store with a bag full
of questionable stuff the next trick
looks outright mean stores put pricier
items at eye level to make you pay
attention to them first as a result more
customers end up buying more costly
products then they're ready to admit
have I mentioned the checkout aisle yet
the place that stocked to the brim with
all kinds of bright and tempting things
candies chewing gums magazines and other
stuff are likely to end up in your
basket while you're waiting in line when
you agree to get a loyalty card you
typically leave your contact details
including your email address many stores
use it to send you newsletters and
notifications informing you about their
special offers naturally it reminds you
about the existence of this particular
store and encourages you to go shopping
right away so as not to miss a great
deal to make you spend much more than
you intended stores use the trick of
bulk pricing grocery stores in
particular tend to offer 10 items for
just $10
it looks appealing especially if they
add something along the lines of maximum
5 per customer this makes you believe
that you're getting a great deal however
if you search the shelves for the same
product you may find out that one item
miraculously costs a bit less than the
whole package what about the stores that
offer you free shipping after you spend
a particular amount of money as a result
instead of the planned $43 you leave the
store with 17 dollars more to avoid
paying for shipping which by the way
costs only $10 humans you're confusing
many stores offer you free returns and a
guaranteed refund if you don't like
their product
this way they remove the risk factor
from buying and people spend money more
eagerly after all you can't get your
money back at any time
guess how many people come in to return
something you're right almost nobody
this one may sound controversial but
some high-end stores prefer their
salespeople to be rude the trick is that
in this case customers will feel
excluded from the exclusive group of
people who buy things in that store
there
or they will buy things just to prove
that they can have you ever paid
attention to the abundance of shopping
baskets and carts at the entrance of any
shop well they are left there not only
for your convenience but to make you buy
more according to experts people can't
stand empty baskets and carts and often
fill them with things they don't need
but that's not all the bigger your cart
is the more you buy that's why after
some stores made their carts twice as
big people began to buy nineteen percent
more products don't tell me that your
eyes don't start to shine when they fall
on buy-one-get-one-free signs looks like
the perfect deal doesn't it if only life
was that easy this offers simply a super
popular marketing trick called BOGO
which is short for buy one get one there
are different BOGO varieties with the
most popular ones being buy one item get
one free and buy one item get the second
one 50% off but let's check how it works
you can buy a pair of jeans for $60 or
you can get a pair of jeans for the same
$60 and a $40 shirt with a 50% discount
the second offer looks tempting after
all $20 for a perfectly good piece of
clothing isn't that much but think about
this you weren't planning to buy a shirt
your goal was to get a pair of jeans and
now instead of $60 you spent $80 as for
buy one get one free
you can often translate it as buy two at
their regular price you see you can get
a buy one get one free offer for apple
juice and the first item costs $4 but
then you notice that you can get one box
of juice for $2 or $2 30 wife anymore if
you don't actually need so much juice as
you can see BOGO isn't usually a good
deal but people perceive it as such
after they notice the alluring word free
and the most curious thing about this
trick is most people realize that
they're being full but still fall for
this offer have you ever made purchases
under the influence of these marketing
tricks share your experience in the
comments below remember to hit the like
button share this video with your
Shopaholic friends and subscribe to the
channel to stay on the bright side of
life
[Music]